.. _PSMDB-4.4.13-13:

================================================================================
*Percona Server for MongoDB* 4.4.13-13
================================================================================

:Date: March 20, 2022
:Installation: `Installing Percona Server for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server-for-mongodb/4.4/install/index.html>`_

Percona Server for MongoDB 4.4.13-13 is an enhanced, open source, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB 4.4.13 Community Edition.
It supports MongoDB 4.4.13 protocols and drivers.

Release Highlights
==================

Added support for Keys Management Interoperability Protocol (KMIP). Now users can store encryption keys in their favorite KMIP-compatible key manager to setup encryption at rest.

* `SERVER-63203 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-63203>`_ - Fixed the issue with chunk splitting when the number of dcuments is high due to small shard keys
* `SERVER-62065 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-62065>`_ - Added the repairShardedCollectionChunksHistory command to restore history fields for some chunks. This aims to fix broken snapshot reads and distributed transactions.
* `SERVER-59754 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-59754>`_ - Fixed incorrect logging of queryHash/planCacheKey for operations that share the same $lookup shape
* `SERVER-55483 <https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-55483>`_ - Added a new startup parameter that skips verifying the table logging settings on restarting as a replica set node from the standalone mode during the restore. This speeds up the restore process.
  
Find the full list of changes in the `MongoDB 4.4.13 Community Edition Release notes <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/4.4/#4.4.13---mar-7--2022>`_.

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PSMDB-971`: Added support for :abbr:`KMIP (Keys Management Interoperability Protocol)` encryption. Now users can store encryption keys in their favorite KMIP-compatible key manager to setup encryption at rest.


